## Reflection on Data Scientists and Statisticians

The assigned readings offered some interesting insights behind the buzz word-ization of the evolving field of data science. As pointed out in the articles, "data science" is kind of a mysterious term in regards to where it fits in with some of the more classical disciplines like statistics or computer science and it was interesting to hear from some professionals in the field about where they think the overarching concept of data science fits in.

Being a data scientist in my mind involves being familiar with a variety of technical tools including programming languages and software and being able to determine when and how to apply those tools to provide context and suggested solutions to practical, real-world problems. A data scientist should be able to guide the entire problem solving process from start to finish, starting with data exploration all the way through to implementing a solution. To be able to do this effectively, a data scientist needs to have a certain level of expertise in both traditional statistics and computer science and, I think most importantly, the areas of overlap between the two. 

Statisticians, while still interested in solving relevant questions, seem to be more research based and focus more on applying traditional mathematical concepts in a theoretical environment as opposed to a programming-related solution. This isn't to say statisticians aren't working to solve real-world problems, but the output of their work usually seems to be in a more abstract format, like a research paper as opposed to an application or model for a data scientist.

I see myself on more of the data science side of things because of my interest in programming and my hopes of eventually working in more data science-y industries but I do definitely have an appreciation for statistics and its associated methods.
